The B physics potential of the CMS detector to be built at the LHC at CERN is presented. First, detector components are briefly reviewed with an emphasis on their role for B physics. Then a description of some physics measurements that could be done with the CMS detector, such as the CKM angle beta, the mixing parameter x s and a number of rare decay studies follows. Finally, a possible high-level trigger algorithm is discussed.
The five ARIES designs, which correspond to five different tokamak operating modes, are reviewed and compared. Physics figures of merit are introduced that quantify the major parameters of a tokamak design in a physics operating space. The five operating modes are compared to one another and to the existing tokamak data base in terms of these physics parameters. While the steady-state first stability design [ARIES-I] and the pulsed first stability design [PULSAR] are closest, no design has yet been completely prototyped in existing tokamaks.
Photodetectors are widely used in particle and nuclear physics research. Since the beginning of the modern era of photoelectric transducers in the late 1930s, many types of devices have been developed and exploited for physics research. New performance requirements arising in physics experiments have often provided very interesting technological drivers for industry. New ideas for photo-detection are rapidly adapted by the physics community to enable more powerful experimental capabilities. This report gives a sampling of new developments in photodetection for physics research in the period since the first conference in this series, Beaune 96. Representative examples of advances in vacuum devices, solid-state devices and gaseous photodetectors are described including, where appropriate, areas where technological improvements are needed or expected.
The modelling of traffic flow using methods and models from physics has a long history. In recent years especially cellular automata models have allowed for large-scale simulations of large traffic networks faster than real time. On the other hand, these systems are interesting for physicists since they allow to observe genuine nonequilibrium effects. Here the current status of cellular automata models for traffic flow is reviewed with special emphasis on nonequilibrium effects (e.g. phase transitions) induced by on- and off-ramps.
Monte Carlo techniques have been widely employed in statistical physics as well as in quantum theory in the Lagrangian formulation. However, in some areas of application to quantum theories computational progress has been slow. Here we present a recently developed approach: the Monte Carlo Hamiltonian method, designed to overcome the difficulties of the conventional approach.
An overview of strangeness nuclear physics is given, focussing on spin dependent effects in Lambda hypernuclei, on the LambdaN -> NN weak interaction in Lambda hypernuclei, on the density dependence of the Sigma nuclear potential and on double strangeness physics. A special emphasis is placed on the recent proposal to study experimentally Xi - atoms.
In this paper, we present the physics prospects for BELLE, an experiment dedicated to the study of CP violation in the B meson system. A brief introduction will give the physics motivation for the experiment. The current status will be given, and the prospects for the next running period and beyond will be outlined.
In the so-called "microscopic" models of vehicular traffic, attention is paid explicitly to each individual vehicle each of which is represented by a "particle"; the nature of the "interactions" among these particles is determined by the way the vehicles influence each others' movement. Therefore, vehicular traffic, modeled as a system of interacting "particles" driven far from equilibrium, offers the possibility to study various fundamental aspects of truly nonequilibrium systems which are of current interest in statistical physics. Analytical as well as numerical techniques of statistical physics are being used to study these models to understand rich variety of physical phenomena exhibited by vehicular traffic. Some of these phenomena, observed in vehicular traffic under different circumstances, include transitions from one dynamical phase to another, criticality and self-organized criticality, metastability and hysteresis, phase-segregation, etc. In this critical review, written from the perspective of statistical physics, we explain the guiding principles behind all the main theoretical approaches. But we present detailed discussions on the results obtained mainly from the so-called "particle-hopping" models, particularly emphasizing those which have been formulated in recent years using the language of cellular automata.
A large number of precision measurements will be possible with the ATLAS and CMS experiments at the CERN Large Hadron Collider (LHC). Examples from W physics, Drell-Yan production of lepton pairs, Triple-Gauge Couplings, top physics, Higgs and Supersymmetry are discussed.
Recent experimental results on the decays of charmonium, together with related physics issues, are reviewed. Some future prospects are described.
Since the discovery of the Crab nebula as an emitter of very high-energy gamma-rays in 1989, ground-based gamma-rays astronomy has opened a unique window to the high-energy physical proceses occuring in the near and distant universe. Some recent physics results will be presented. Currently, a new generation of Imaging Air Cherenkov Telescopes is under construction in several locations on the northern and southern hemisphere. Based on the expected performance of the MAGIC Telescope a significant enhancement of the physics prospects of ground-based gamma-ray astronomy is indicated.
We briefly review some selected aspects of the relation between string theory and particle physics.
The present status of CMS, one of the major experimental facilities at the future LHC is presented. After a short description of the detector and its constituents, the main physics goals and performances of the experiment (Higgs, Supersymmetry, B-Physics) is presented with emphasis on B-physics. Detailed examples are given on sin2beta measurement in B-physics, using the channel B d o , (B d o) -> J psi KS o and tagging strategies are reviewed.
We introduce first the laser electron photon (LEP) facility at SPring8 and the research field, Quark Nuclear Physics. As a promising theoretical tool, we discuss the dual Ginzburg-Landau theory for the description of the low energy and long range phenomena in strongly interacting systems. The first experiment with the LEP facility is to measure the photoproduction of phi meson to detect the glueball in the t-channel. We show then a clear systematics seen in the baryon spectra and compare with the simple deformed oscillator quark model. There are many interesting problems to work out at the LEP facility at SPring8 and to develop the Quark Nuclear Physics.
Gravity obscures some of the most subtle phenomena that are key to solving outstanding questions in physics today. To address these questions, the micro-gravity research division of NASA has recently formed a fundamental physics discipline. Currently, the research focus areas in this discipline are Low Temperature and Condensed Matter Physics (LT/CMP), Laser Cooling and Atomic Physics (LCAP) and Gravitational and Relativistic Physics (GRP). NASA objectives in these areas are to support ground-based research with flight potential, to develop research-enabling technologies and to conduct flight investigations. There are currently 54 on-going research investigations being funded, 8 of which are potential flight experiments. A review of the current directions of research in this discipline will be presented. NASA's plans for development of flight hardware to support research on the International Space Station over the next decades will also be discussed including the planned development of a cryogenic facility for providing an environment below 2 Kelvin for up to 6 months to future investigators.
Between 1992 and 1996, the CDF experiment has collected a data sample of 110 pb -1 of p p  collisions at s =1.8 TeV at the Fermilab Tevatron. In the year 2000 the Tevatron will commence p p  collisions again at s =2.0 TeV delivering an integrated luminosity of 1 fb -1 yr -1 . In the mean time the CDF detector will have undergone substantial upgrades which will allow for a rich B physics program with unique capabilities. In this paper we discuss the B physics prospects at CDF with the data that will be collected during this upcoming Tevatron run.
The central role of neutrinos in the determination of fundamental interactions is reviewed. The recent SuperKamiokande discovery of neutrino mass gives an c of physics at short distances, and tests theories of flavor. Quark-lepton symmetries, derived from grand unification and/or string theories, can help determine the standard model parameters in the neutrino sector.
I overview the theoretical successes and problems in determining the fundamental parameters of the standard model from flavor-related physics, in particular B-meson physics. Emphasis is put on the fact that only a large number of complementary measurements can yield precise information on the standard model and its possible inconsistencies.
We apply a general formalism for the improved effective potential with several mass scales to compute the scale M of new physics which is needed to stabilize the Standard Model potential in the presence of a light Higgs. We find, by imposing perturbativity of the new physics, that M can be as large as one order of magnitude higher than the instability scale of the Standard Model. This implies that, with the present lower bounds on the Higgs mass, the new physics could easily (but not necessarily) escape detection in the present and future accelerators.
Superconducting magnet technology for particle detectors has been advanced to provide large-scale magnetic fields in particle physics experiments. The technology has been progressed to meet physics goals and the detector requirement of having maximum magnetic field with minimum material and space. This paper includes an overview of the advances of particle detector magnets and discusses key technologies.
The cubic zinc-blende phase of boron nitride (c-BN) affords a plethora of potential applications based on material hardness, low chemical reactivity, high thermal conductivity and also on its very large band gap. A modern growth experiments are currently carried out to elaborate monocrystalline c-BN films with a strong film-substrate adherence and up to now several substrates have been used. However, although the film concentration of c-BN is increasing, the growth optimization is still a question under debate. Optimum conditions must be found in energetic growth techniques (IBAD) as well as substrate conditions (temperature, polarization). In this field basic physics is at the very heart of any strategy which aims to elaborate high quality c-BN films. This involves the physics of heteroepitaxy, an aspect of the growth process which consists in taking advantage of complementary freedom degrees as substrate choice and introduction of buffer layers to optimize heterointerfaces. Although several substrates have been tested an optimized choice still remain to be found. On the other hand, the strategy of buffer layers to improve film quality has been less investigated. In this communication, we give the state of art of this field and we discuss the problem of the optimization of c-BN film quality and we demonstrate that the variation of c-BN content in BN films grown on different substrates can be understood on the basis of elasticity theory.
The theoretical description of heavy fermion physics, in particular the formation and energy scale of the heavy electron liquid, is still an open issue. One of the competing points of view is based on Nozieres' exhaustion scenario that predicts a strongly reduced Kondo scale in concentrated systems. We study the properties of the paramagnetic phase of the periodic Anderson model within the dynamical mean-field theory at T=0 using Wilson's numerical renormalization group. Special emphasis is laid on the relation between lattice and impurity energy scales.
We review the physics which can be adressed at future hadron facilities in Europe. Leaving aside low energy electron machines we discuss the case of the COMPASS experiment, currently under construction at the CERN SPS and the project of an antiproton facility, currently discussed in the framework of future plans for the GSI. With the ending of the CERN LEAR programme, the concentration of CERN resources to the LHC and the disappearance of European hadron facility projects, these two projects carry the heritage of Europes long lasting engagement in hadron physics with high energy beams into the next millenium.
We explore the capabilities for new physics discovery in proton-antiproton collisions at 5.4 TeV center-of-mass energy with luminosity 1033 cm-2 s -1 at a Tripler upgrade of the Tevatron collider. The prospects are robust for the usual Higgs boson and supersymmetry benchmarks. With an integrated luminosity of 40 fb-1, discoveries at 5sigma could be made for a standard Higgs boson of mass <=680 GeV (600 GeV for 10 fb-1), a lighter chargino of mass <=380 GeV, and an extra Z boson of mass <=2.6 TeV; four-fermion contact interactions from new physics with scale <=74 TeV could be excluded at the 95% confidence level.
The current scope and status of projected B-physics studies with the ATLAS detector are presented. With the early low-luminosity running, high-statistics studies of various B-decay channels will allow measurements of the unitarity-triangle angles alpha and beta and searches for deviations from the Standard Model. ATLAS will also perform measurements of Bs oscillations and of the Bs and Lambda b production and decay properties. ATLAS will be able to access rare B-decays using high- and low-luminosity running.
The LHC will produce b b  events at an unprecedented rate. The number of events recorded by ATLAS will be limited by the rate at which they can be stored offline and subsequently analysed. Despite the huge number of events, the small branching ratios mean that analysis of many of the most interesting channels for CP violation and other measurements will be limited by statistics. The challenge for the Trigger and Data Acquisition (DAQ) system is therefore to maximise the fraction of interesting B decays in the B-physics data stream. The ATLAS Trigger/DAQ system is split into three levels. The initial B-physics selection is made in the first-level trigger by an inclusive low-p T muon trigger (~6 GeV). The second-level trigger strategy is based on identifying classes of final states by their partial reconstruction. The muon trigger is confirmed before proceeding to a track search. Electron/hadron separation is given by the transition radiation tracking detector and the Electromagnetic calorimeter. Muon identification is possible using the muon detectors and the hadronic calorimeter. From silicon strips, pixels and straw tracking, precise track reconstruction is used to make selections based on invariant mass, momentum and impact parameter. The ATLAS trigger group is currently engaged in algorithm development and performance optimisation for the B-physics trigger. This is closely coupled to the R&D programme for the higher-level triggers. Together the two programmes of work will optimise the hardware, architecture and algorithms to meet the challenging requirements. This paper describes the current status and progress of this work.
The advantages of a separate undergraduate course emphasizing computer simulations are discussed. Also discussed are the advantages of Java and the timeliness of integrating aspects of computational physics into the undergraduate curriculum so that the curriculum reflects the way physics is currently done.
I summarize some recent results on B meson physics from the CLEO collaboration obtained with the Cornell electron-positron storage ring operating at the upsilon(4S) resonance: (a) determinations of the elements of the CKM matrix from semileptonic decays and (b) rare nonleptonic decays to charmless final states.
An overview is presented of current techniques to accumulate and cool large numbers of positrons from a radioactive 22Na source and neon moderator, and the first operation of a new generation of positron accumulator is described. Experiments are discussed that use these techniques to study the interaction of positrons with atoms and molecules at low energies (i.e., below the threshold for positronium formation), including systematic studies of the dependence of positron annihilation on chemical composition. By measuring the Doppler-broadening of gamma-ray annihilation radiation, the quantum state of the annihilating electrons in atoms and molecules was identified. These experiments indicate that positrons annihilate with approximately equal probability on any valence electron. Annihilation with inner shell electrons is infrequent, but is measurable at the level of a few percent in heavier atoms. Measurements of annihilation rates in molecules as a function of positron temperature revealed a number of interesting trends that are briefly discussed. We have developed a new technique to make a cold, bright positron beam. This technique is now being used for a new generation of scattering experiments in the range of energies <=1 eV. Other possible experiments to study aspects of atomic and molecular physics using positron accumulation techniques and this cold positron beam are briefly discussed.
Lambda hypernuclear spectroscopy has great significance for the investigation of the Lambda hypernuclear structure and LambdaN interaction. This chapter reviews recent progress and development of hypernuclear physics in the S=-I regime. Wide variety of spectroscopy as a tool to investigate Lambda hypernuclear structure and LambdaN interaction is discussed referring recent spectroscopic data. Quantitative data can be obtained, taking advantages of new experimental opportunities. In particular, the ( pi+, K+) reaction spectroscopy with the SKS spectrometer has established the value of the Lambda hypernuclear spectroscopy with its good resolution and high detection efficiency. Hypernuclear gamma ray spectroscopy with the Ge detector array proved its unparalleled energy resolution, giving crucial information on the spin-dependent LambdaN interaction. Future prospect of hypernuclear physics is discussed based on recent developments.
Intensity interferometry and in particular that based on Bose-Einstein correlations (BEC) constitutes at present the only direct experimental method for the determination of sizes and lifetimes of sources in particle and nuclear physics. The measurement of these is essential for an understanding of the dynamics of strong interactions which are responsible for the existence and properties of atomic nuclei. Moreover, a new state of matter, quark matter, in which the ultimate constituents of matter move freely, is within the reach of present accelerators or those under construction. The confirmation of the existence of this new state is intimately linked with the determination of its space-time properties. Furthermore, BEC provides information about quantum coherence which lies at the basis of the phenomenon of Bose-Einstein condensation seen in many chapters of physics. Coherence and the associated classical fields are essential ingredients in modern theories of particle physics including the standard model. Last but not least besides this "applicative" aspect of BEC, this effect has implications for the foundations of quantum mechanics including the understanding of the concept of "identical particles". Recent theoretical developments in BEC are reviewed and their application in high-energy particle and heavy-ion reactions is analysed. The treated topics include: (a) a comparison between the wave-function approach and the space-time approach based on classical currents, which predicts "surprising" particle-anti-particle BEC, (b) the study of final state interactions, (c) the use of hydrodynamics, and (d) the relation between correlations and multiplicity distributions.
We present the initial design of a very large liquid scintillator detector to be installed in the underground cavity where Kamiokande was once sited. The experiment is optimized to detect low-energy anti-neutrinos and will perform unique measurements in the fields of neutrino physics, geophysics and astrophysics. KamLAND is conceived as a "scalable" detector that will be able to start in a very short time. This first stage detector will be able to deliver results on a number of essential physics issues that only require present day technology. This first running period will also establish backgrounds and detector requirements for a second ultra-low background running phase. One of the initial aims will be to perform a very long baseline oscillation experiment using several nuclear reactors. This can be considered the "ultimate" neutrino mass test using the oscillation technique. The observation of neutrinos from the Earth, supernovae, atmosphere and nucleon decay will also be part of a very ambitious initial program, while in a later stage the observation of solar neutrinos will become the main focus.
Bose-Einstein condensed atomic gases are a new class of quantum fluids. They are produced by cooling a dilute atomic gas to nanokelvin temperatures using laser and evaporative cooling techniques. The study of these quantum gases has become an interdisciplinary field of atomic and condensed matter physics. Topics of many-body physics can now be studied with the methods of atomic physics. Many long-standing predictions of the theory of the weakly interacting Bose gas have been verified, including thermodynamic properties of the phase transition and dynamic properties such as shape oscillations and sound propagation. Stimulated light scattering was used to determine the dynamic structure factor both in the phonon and free-particle regime. Atomic Bose condensates show a variety of novel phenomena which include multi-component spinor condensates, magnetic domain formation, miscibility and immiscibility of quantum fluids, and finite-size effects.
This chapter provides an overview of the development of a basic physical model of ionized physical vapor deposition (I-PVD). The goal is to understand the salient mechanisms connecting the externally controlled system parameters to the internal plasma parameters that determine film quality. Because the purpose is to foster an intuitive understanding of I-PVD, the physical descriptions is simple analytical models that successfully describe experimentally observed results. In this chapter, generic principles of operation are discussed that can be applied to many of the various reactors. The plasma is typically generated by radio frequency inductive coupling, microwave electron cyclotron resonance, or a DC hollow cathode magnetron. The precise method of plasma generation is not material to the physical processes, as long as an electron density of ~ 10 12 cm -3 is created. The pressure within the reactor is in the range of 10-50 mTorr. An inert gas, such as argon is used for deposition of pure metals, but nitrogen may be added to the plasma if metal-nitride compounds are needed. The chapter describes the physics of I-PVD so that the chamber geometry, plasma power, gas pressure, gas type, and target power can be selected to achieve the proper degree of metal ionization, collimation, and uniformity.
In 1998, about 100 researchers met twice to develop plans for the future in this research area. The results of these meetings have been collected in a package titled "A Roadmap for Fundamental Physics in Space". A summary of the Roadmap will be presented along with an overview of the current program. Research is being performed in Low Temperature and Condensed Matter Physics, Laser Cooling and Atomic Physics, and Gravitational and Relativistic Physics. There are currently over 50 investigators in the program of which 8 are being evaluated as potential flight experiments. The number of investigators is expected to grow further during the next selection cycle, planned to start toward the end of this year. In the near future, our investigators will be able to take advantage of long duration experimentation in Space using a suite of different carriers under development.
The fluctuations in the Cosmic Microwave Background Radiation (CMBR) contain key information about the physical conditions in the early universe. Two new satellites are expected to measure the CMBR fluctuation spectrum so precisely that almost all the relevant cosmological parameters can be determined at the percent level. This is great news for particle physics since physics beyond the standard model is prone to manifest itself in the early universe and therefore make a detectable imprint on CMBR fluctuations. As an example of this, I discuss the prospects for measuring active-sterile neutrino oscillations and neutrino decays.
Several topics in hadron physics at different scales of resolution are discussed. First, deep-inelastic scattering from nucleons and nuclei is viewed in a light-come coordinate space picture. Then the smooth transition from parton to hadron degrees of freedom is demonstrated by analysing generalized Q 2-dependent polarizabilities of the nucleon. Turning to low energy QCD we summarize recent developments related to the role of strange quarks in Chiral SU(3) Dynamics, a non-perturbative coupled channel approach to hadronic processes. Finally we elaborate on a unification of QCD Sum Rules with aspects of spontaneous chiral symmetry breaking in the analysis of quark-antiquark excitations of the condensed QCD vacuum and in nuclear matter.
High precision measurements of electroweak observables at e +- colliders indicate the existence of a light Higgs boson below the W +- threshold. If such fundamental scalar should be found in the near future it is important to fully investigate the electroweak symmetry braking sector of the Standard Model. This is particularly important for an intermediate mass Higgs as its existence might indicate physics beyond the Standard Model, for instance in form of its minimal supersymmetric extension (MSSM). In this work we present first results on the expected precision of the partial Gamma(H -> gammagamma) width at the gammagamma option of a future linear collider. This quantity is sensitive to new physics as heavy particles do not docouple in general and differences between the SM and MSSM predictions can differ by up to 10% even in the decoupling limit of large pseudoscalar Higgs masses. This regime is difficult and for some values of tan beta impossible to cover at the LHC. We find that the well understood background process gamma -> qq allows for a O (2%) determination of Gamma(H -> gamma) using conservative collider parameters.
Theoretical overviews on the B-physics are presented with an emphasis on the light-cone degrees of freedom. Our new treatment of the embedded states seems to give an encouraging result.
The primary goal of the BaBar experiment is the systematic study of the CP violating asymmetries in different decays of the B mesons to make accurate measurement of the angles of the Unitarity Triangle. The search for rare B decay modes, precision measurement of V ub and V cb and detailed study of the B mixing are also part of the BaBar physics program.
The development of cryogenic calorimeters was originally motivated by the fact that very low-energy thresholds and excellent energy resolutions can be achieved by these devices. Cryogenic devices are widely used in double beta-decay experiments, in cosmological dark matter searches, in X-ray detection of galactic and extragalactic objects as well as in cosmic background radiation experiments. An overview of the latest developments is given.
By running the prospective high-energy e + e - collider TESLA in the GigaZ mode on the Z resonance, experiments can be performed on the basis of more than 109 Z events. They will allow the measurement of the effective electroweak mixing angle to an accuracy of deltasin2 theta eff~=+-1*10-5. Likewise the W boson mass is expected to be measurable with an error of deltaM W ~=+-6 MeV near the W + W - threshold. In this note, we study the accuracy with which the Higgs boson mass can be determined from loop corrections to these observables in the Standard Model. The comparison with a directly observed Higgs boson may be used to constrain new physics scales affecting the virtual loops. We also study constraints on the heavy Higgs particles predicted in the Minimal Supersymmetric Standard Model, which are very difficult to observe directly for large masses. Similarly, it is possible to constrain the mass of the heavy scalar top particle.
The centrality dependence of elliptic flow and how it is related to the physics of expansion of the system created in high energy nuclear collisions is discussed. Since in the hydro limit the centrality dependence of elliptic flow is mostly defined by the elliptic anisotropy of the overlapping region of the colliding nuclei, and in the low density limit by the product of the elliptic anisotropy and the multiplicity, we argue that the centrality dependence of elliptic flow should be a good indicator of the degree of equilibration reached in the reaction. Then we analyze experimental data obtained at AGS and SPS energies. The observed difference in the centrality dependence of elliptic flow could imply a transition from a hadronic to a partonic nature of the system evolution. Finally we exploit the multiplicity dependence of elliptic flow to make qualitative predictions for RHIC and LHC.
Underground muon events detected by the MACRO experiment at Gran Sasso have been studied for different purposes. The studies include the vertical muon intensity measurement, multiplicity distribution, lateral and angular muon distribution and searches for substructures inside muon bundles. These analyses have contributed to bring new insights in cosmic ray physics, in particular in the framework of primary cosmic ray composition studies. Moreover, this activity allows the testing and tuning of Monte Carlo simulations, in particular for aspects associated with models of hadronic interactions and muon propagation through the rock.
The processing of the genetic information stored in the double-helical DNA implies the separation of the two strands, the physics of which is described by the helix-coil transition model. Is there a relationship between genetic maps and DNA physical stability maps that plot the sequence-specific propensity for the thermal disruption of the double-helix? Here, with appropriate methodological formulations, such maps are derived for a large set of sequences, including complete genomes. The superposition of the two maps leads to a contrasted picture with correlations ranging between two extremes: from almost perfect (with the genes precisely delineated as stable regions) to more or less complete unrelatedness. The simplest explanation for the results is that the observed striking correlations correspond to the relics of a primeval organisation of the genetic message, with the physics of DNA playing a role in the delimitation of coding regions. In order to trace the evolutionary fate of this signal further, a detailed study of the yeast complete genome is performed. In this study, the superposition of the genetic and physical stability maps is examined in the light of information concerning gene duplication. On the basis of this analysis it is concluded that the 'signature' associated with the supposed archaic signal is in the process of being erased, most probably because the underlying feature is no longer under selective pressure. There are many evolutionary implications for the results presented and for their proposed interpretations, notably concerning models of mutational dynamics in relation to erasure processes.
The DOdetector has been undergoing a major upgrade in preparation for the high-luminosity run at the Tevatron. This document reviews the components of the upgrade with an emphasis on the new B physics capabilities. Projections for the observability of the CP violation are made based on the upgrade simulation. It is shown that measurement of sin 2beta can be achieved at DO with uncertainty below 0.1 for an integrated luminosity of 2 fb -1 .
The LEP collider provides a rich environment for the study of B-physics. Recent results are presented in the areas of B-hadron lifetimes, B B  Oscillation, CP asymmetry and CKM matrix elements determination.
Some examples of the impact of the theoretical contributions by Richard Pratt and his collaborators on photon cross section compilations at NBS/NIST and elsewhere over the past several decades are presented. Both the theoretical and measurement works which combine to provide this data base, and the contact with the varied user groups in medical applications, nuclear engineering, crystallography and X-ray astronomy, have formed a global crossroads of researchers now embodied in the International Radiation Physics Society (IRPS). Since the founding of the IRPS at the 3rd International Symposium on Radiation Physics (ISRP-3) in Ferrara, Italy, in 1985, the Secretariat for this "global radiation physics family" (the IRPS) has resided at the University of Pittsburgh under the direction of Richard Pratt. A brief account of the origins and history of the IRPS, beginning with ISRP-1 in Calcutta in 1974, is presented.
The Spin Muon Collaboration at CERN has covered a wide range of spin physics. The main aim of the collaboration was the measurement of the g 1 spin structure functions of the proton and the neutron (using deuteron targets) in the range 0.003 < x < 0.7 for Q 2 >= 1 GeV2. This was accompanied by a QCD analysis of all published g 1 data. The spin structure functions g 2 were also measured, which allowed for a reduction on the error in g 1. Semi inclusive data were analyzed in order to produce the first polarized quark distributions. Data obtained with a dedicated low x trigger extend down to x = 6 * 10-5 for Q 2 >= 0.01 GeV2. Some more specifics channels are still being analyzed, they include asymmetry in diffractive rho production, hadron azimuthal asymmetry with a transversely polarized target, measurement of the longitudinal Lambda polarization, and the asymmetry in high P t hadron pair production. This last asymmetry is related to the gluon polarization in the nucleon, and this topic will be discussed in some details after a brief review of the main inclusive results.
It has been known for some time that both foveal and peripheral visual acuity is higher for single letters than for letters in a row. Early work showed that this was due to the destructive interaction of adjacent contours (termed 'crowding' or contour interaction). It has been assumed to have a neural basis and a number of competing explanations have been advanced which implicate either high-level or low-level stages of visual processing. Our results suggest a much simpler explanation, one primarily determined by the physics of the stimulus rather than the physiology of the visual system. We show that, under conditions of contour interaction or 'crowding', the most relevant physical spatial frequency band of the letter is displaced to higher spatial frequencies and that foveal vision tracks this change in spatial scale.
The conformal symmetry SO(d,2) of the massless particle in d dimensions, or superconformal symmetry OSp N|4 , SU(2,2|N), OSp(8|N) of the superparticle in d=3,4,6 dimensions respectively, had been previously understood as the global Lorentz symmetry and supersymmetries of 2T physics in d+2 dimensions. By utilizing the gauge symmetries of 2T physics, it is shown that the dynamics can be cast in terms of superspace coordinates, momenta and theta variables or in terms of supertwistor variables a la Penrose and Ferber. In 2T physics these can be gauge transformed to each other. In the supertwistor version the quantization of the model amounts to the well known oscillator formalism for non-compact supergroups.
COMPASS is a new experiment under construction at the CERN SPS aimed at the study of structure and spectroscopy of hadrons with multiple types of high intensity beams. A polarised muon beam is used for deep inelastic scattering on a polarised target to study the spin structure of nucleons. The physics program connected to the hadron beams includes Primakoff scattering of pions and kaons to study their polarisabilities, central production of hybrids and glueballs in a proton beam on a liquid hydrogen target and production and leptonic and semi-leptonic decays of charmed hadrons. The COMPASS experiment uses a double forward spectrometer for best momentum resolution. Both spectrometer parts are equipped with RICH detectors, electromagnetic and hadronic calorimeters and muon filters for particle identification.
In principle any e + e - collider can generate real gammagamma and egamma collisions at a significant fraction of the luminosity and energy available in e + e - mode. More R and D is needed to prove that this will work, and to cost it. The outline of the physics case is known but it needs to be sharpened if the real photon option is to included in the technical proposals for future linear colliders. If a light Higgs boson is found then the importance of making a direct measurement of its two photon partial width would make the case very strong.
Although it is generally well known that water repellent soils have distinct preferential flow patterns, the physics of this phenomenon is not well understood. In this paper, we show that water repellency affects the soil water contact angle and this, in turn, has a distinct effect on the constitutive relationships during imbibing. Using these constitutive relationships, unstable flow theory developed for coarse grained soils can be used to predict the shape and water content distribution for water repellent soils. A practical result of this paper is that with a basic experimental setup, we can characterize the imbibing front behavior by measuring the water entry pressure and the imbibing soil characteristic curve from the same heat treated soil.
The discovery of polyethylene single crystals leading to the inference of molecular chainfolding was made by Andrew Keller with minimal resources. The background to his early research in Bristol and the development of his Group are described. His practice of combining microscopy with complementary techniques on the same well-defined system remains the most productive approach to the solution of manifold problems in polymer physics.
The front-end of a neutrino factory (or a mu+mu- collider) has a potential to provide a high-intensity muon beam of low energy. It would give us great physics opportunities with a tremendous number of muons (of about 1012/s). Among many possibilities, one of the important physics subjects is a search for muon lepton flavor violation (LFV). The physics motivation of muon LFV and the latest experimental status are given. Finally, a high-intensity muon source, in particular PRISM in Japan, is discussed.
This chapter illustrates that the development of lasers capable of delivering short pulses of very intense radiation, over a wide frequency range, has led to the discovery of new, nonperturbative multiphoton processes in laser interactions with atomic systems. In this article, we first give a survey of the main properties of multiphoton processes such as the multiphoton ionization of atoms, the emission by atoms of high-order harmonics of the exciting laser light, and laser-assisted electron-atom collisions. It then review the theory of these processes, giving particular attention to ab-initio nonperturbative methods such as the Sturmian-Floquet approach, the R-matrix-Floquet theory, and the numerical integration of the time-dependent Schrodinger equation. The chapter discusses relativistic effects that occur at ultra-high intensities. The chapter concludes by considering possible future developments of high-intensity laser-atom physics.
The chapter describes the physics of giant magnetostriction as the deformation of a body in response to a change in its magnetization. The change can be brought by the change in temperature or by the application of a magnetic field. All magnetic materials exhibit magnetostriction to some degree, but giant magnetostriction occurs in a small number of materials containing rare earth elements. The mechanical strength of giant magnetostrictive is important as it is used in resonance in which the amplitude of the stress can be extremely high. Magnetoelasticity is defined as the coupling between the classical properties of elasticity, strain, the intrinsically quantum mechanics, and the relativistic phenomena of magnetism. Coupling that exists at the individual electron level is known as "spin-orbit coupling." This is one of the smallest energies used to describe the state of an atom as it derives from the relativistic aspects of the electron motion. The chapter also discusses some simplified descriptions of magnetism and magnetostriction that form a base for understanding the potential and limitations of materials exhibiting giant magnetostriction.
We explore the would-be consequences of a low value of the CP-violating phase sin2beta psiK . The importance of a reference triangle obtained from measurements that are independent of B-B and K-K mixing is stressed. It can be used to extract separately potential New Physics contributions to mixing in the B d , B s and K systems. We discuss several constructions of this triangle, which will be feasible in the near future. The discrete ambiguity is at most two-fold and eventually can be completely removed. Simultaneously, it will be possible to probe for New Physics in loop-dominated rare decays.
In this paper the Principle of Limited Entropic Uncertainty (LEU-Principle) for the canonic conjugate variables in quantum physics is proved in a more general form by using Tsallis-like entropies for positive nonextensivities (q>0). Results on experimental tests of this new principle for the angle-angular momentum variables in the quantum scattering are illustrated by using 49 sets of pion-nucleus phase shifts.
This paper reviews the state of the current community of physics education researchers and considers the changes in culture needed to implement reforms of tertiary-level technological education. The recent work of discipline-based educational researchers has some important consequences. The researchers' primary goal is to illuminate and explain what is happening in tertiary courses. This new knowledge has helped to document the educational costs of either failing to introduce reform or of introducing poorly considered changes. The results of this research also have provided guidance for the development of more effective curricula.
Recent developments in the field of complete electroweak tree-level calculations for six-fermion final states in e + e - collisions are briefly reviewed. Particular attention is given to top-quark and Higgs boson physics, which are items of primary importance at the Next Linear Collider. The relevance of electroweak backgrounds and finite-width effects is discussed, showing the importance of complete calculations for precision studies at the colliders operating in the TeV energy range.
This manuscript is based on four opening lectures, which were designed to offer a brief and somewhat parochial overview of some "exotic" statistical physics puzzles of possible interest to biophysicists, medical physicists, and econophysicists. These include the statistical properties of DNA sequences, heartbeat intervals, brain plaques in Alzheimer brains, and fluctuations in economics. These problems have the common feature that the guiding principles of scale invariance and universality appear to be relevant.
A theoretical view of vortex core states and of their effects on physics of vortices in clean s- and d-wave-type II superconductors is presented based on a semi-classical picture of a vortex core as an Andreev potential well containing many quasiparticle states. We discuss the density of states, the vortex dissipation, Hall effect, and the vortex mass. The dynamic characteristics are determined by relaxation of core excitations driven by a moving vortex. In a d-wave superconductor, gap nodes make the core states more extended and introduce novel features into thermodynamics and kinetics of vortices.
We consider lepton-antilepton annihilation into a fermion-antifermion pair at variable c.m. energy. We propose for this process a simple parametrization of the virtual effects of the most general model of new physics of universal type. This parametrization is based on a recent approach, that uses the experimental results of LEP1, SLC as theoretical input. It introduces three functions whose energy dependence is argued to be smooth and, in first approximation, negligible. A couple of representative models of new physics are considered, as a support of the previous claim. Explicit bounds are then derived for this type of new physics from the available LEP2 data, and a discussion is given of the relevance in this respect of the different experimental measurements. The method is then extended to treat the case of two particularly simple models of non universal type, for which it is possible to draw analogous conclusions.
This review is devoted to recent advances in the physics of cold and ultra-cold neutrons reported at this workshop, in so far as they bear on current problems in particle physics both within and beyond the Standard Model. Attention is directed primarily to developments in the experimental study of neutron decay and to searches for the breakdown of T-invariance, either through the detection of a finite neutron electric dipole moment, or through the observation of T-violating asymmetries in selected neutron scattering processes. The review concludes with a brief resume of some fundamental studies in the field of neutron interferometry.
Initial state radiation (ISR) events produced in e + e - collisions at the upsilon(4S) energy region can provide access to e + e - annihilations at lower C. M. energies. At B-factory experiments the data rate is substantial for physics at all energies below the upsilon(4S). This paper describes the tagging of the ISR events, and identifies several physics topics that can be studied with the ISR data.
ALEPH is one of the four detectors at the Large Electron-Positron Collider (LEP) at a depth of about 320 m.w.e. Its hadron calorimeter and scintillator arrays installed at distances up to about 1 km away from ALEPH are used to measure cosmic muon induced time coincidences over large distances. The aim of this experiment (CosmoALEPH) is (1) to study the muon component above 70 GeV of Extensive Air Showers (EAS) and (2) to test the feasibility of searching for time correlations over even larger distances (up to 8 km) between the four LEP detectors. Layout and first results of CosmoALEPH are presented demonstrating the potential for cosmic ray physics in the LEP tunnel. The multiplicity distribution of muons in cosmic events recorded in ALEPH's tracking detector is presented.
In this paper we review basic research on widegap semiconductor microcavities that has shown how the fundamental features of II-VI-based quantum well heterostructures can give rise to enhancements in the light-matter interaction due to exciton-photon coupling effects. As these effects have been seen to extend into the regime of stimulated emission and vertical cavity lasing, they are of potential practical interest for the nitride widegap semiconductors as well. A major question for the II-VI semiconductors is whether a combination of lower dimensional gain medium, together with innovative microresonator design and excitation scheme can lead to an efficient, low current density, and practical green coherent optical source.
The achievements of Prof. Pratt are astounding, even when restricting the attention to electron bremsstrahlung. He has worked out refined theories and codes to determine the cross-sections in the relativistic regime, including the dependences on angles and polarization. He has discussed the validity of simpler calculations. His deep understanding and the data he and his coworkers have tabulated have paved the way to many studies in plasma physics. The features of bremsstrahlung of highly dense plasmas were identified. For less dense and most often non-Maxwellian plasmas, the spectra can be analyzed to extract the electron distribution function. Examples are taken mostly from laser plasmas and magnetized laboratory plasmas.
This paper deals with two major particle identification methods: dE/dx and Cherenkov detection. In the first method, we systematically compare existing dE/dx data with various predictions available in the literature, such as the Particle Data Group recommendation, and judge the overall consistency. To my knowledge, such comparison was not done yet in a published form for the gaseous detectors used in high-energy physics. As for the second method, there are two major Cherenkov light detection techniques: the threshold and the Ring imaging methods. We discuss the recent trend in these techniques.
A review on the theoretical aspects and the experimental results of polarized deep inelastic scattering and of other hard scattering processes is presented. The longitudinally polarized structure functions are introduced and cross section fromulae are given for the case of photon as well as W +- and Z 0 exchange. Results from the SLAC and CERN polarization experiments are shown and compared with each other as well as their implications for the integrated g1(x,Q2) are reviewed. More recent experiments presently underway (like HERMES at DESY) and future projects (like RHIC at BNL, HERA- N -> and a polarized HERA collider at DESY) are discussed too. The QCD interpretation and the LO and NLO Q 2-evolution of g 1, i.e. of the longitudinally polarized parton densities, is discussed in great detail, in particular the role of the polarized gluon density, as well as the expectations for x->0. Particular emphasis is placed on the first moment of the polarized structure function in various factorization schemes, which is related to the axial anomaly, and on its relevance for understanding the origin of the proton spin. Sum rules (i.e. relations between moments of the structure functions) are derived and compared with recent experimental results. Various other phenomenological applications are discussed as well, in particular the parametrizations of polarized parton densities as obtained from recent data and their evolution in Q 2. Furthermore, jet, heavy quark and direct photon production are reviewed as a sensitive probe of the polarized gluon density, and the physics prospects of the future polarized experiments at RHIC ( p -> p -> ) and a polarized HERA collider ( e -> p -> ) are studied. DIS semi-inclusive asymmetries and elastic neutrino-proton scattering are reviewed, which will help to disentangle the various polarized flavor densities in the nucleon. The status of single- and double-spin asymmetries, and the observation of handedness in the final state, are discussed as well. Structure functions for higher spin hadrons and nuclei are defined and possible nuclear effects on high energy spin physics are reviewed. The theoretical concept of spin-dependent parton distributions and structure functions of the polarized photon is presented and possibilities for measuring them are briefly discussed. Various nonperturbative approaches to understand the origin of the proton spin are reviewed, such as the isosinglet U A (1) Goldberger-Treiman relation, lattice calculations and the chiral soliton model of the nucleon. The physical interpretation and model calculations of the transverse structure function g 2 are presented, as well as recent twist-3 measurements thereof, and the Burkhardt-Cottingham sum rule is revisited. Finally, the physics of chiral-odd 'transversity' distributions is described and experimental possibilities for delineating them are reviewed, which will be important for a complete understanding of the leading twist-2 sector of the nucleon's parton structure. In the appendix the full two-loop anomalous dimensions and Altarelli-Parisi splitting functions governing the Q 2-evolution of the structure function g 1 are given.
A new beam line and injector deck for AMS measurements have been built at the 8 MV tandem accelerator of the National Institute of Nuclear Physics and Engineering, Bucharest, Romania. The main components on the low-energy side are a high-current cesium sputter source, a 90 injection magnet and a pre-acceleration stage. At the high-energy side the beam line is achromatic, consisting of two 90 analysing magnets with mass energy product 120 MeV amu and a gas-filled ionization chamber. The system will be complete with a Wien filter and a multi-anode gas detector with time-of-flight discrimination. Presently, the AMS facility is undergoing tests and routine measurements are expected to start soon.
In order to improve the safety characteristics of nuclear systems, accelerator driven assemblies have been proposed for energy production and for the incineration of the residuals of the back-end of the nuclear fuel cycle like plutonium, minor actinides and long-lived fission products. For the neutron physics analysis of such source driven systems calculation procedures have been established and qualified at FZK. Necessary extensions to the conventional methods for fission reactors are discussed in some detail, especially for the spallation processes initiated by protons with energies of about 1 GeV. The application of these methods in an IAEA benchmark for an energy amplifier type of ADS identified the problem of the unfavorable power distribution in such sub-critical systems. In order to improve the power distributions the application of multiple sources, radial distributed over the reactor assembly has been proposed. Investigations for an ADS with three proton beams are performed with respect to the capability of incineration of plutonium and minor actinides.
The current situation on experimental evidence for neutrino oscillations is briefly summarized. The planned experimental program to investigate both the LSND effect and atmospheric anomaly is described. A projection is made as to what we shall learn in the next ten years and what will be the most important issues at that time in neutrino oscillation physics.
Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD) is the "theory of everything" in the physics of strong interaction. This chapter provides a brief introduction of the current problems in QCD, and discusses selected topics on the physics of in-medium hadrons. They are in-medium QCD sum rules, spectral functions in lattice QCD, and critical fluctuation of the chiral order parameter in dense medium. QCD sum rules which have great success in reproducing hadronic properties are based on the Wilson's operator product expansion; in a way it makes use of the appropriate window of energy scale where both hadronic description and the quark-gluon description are valid. Special emphasis is put on the QCD spectral function, which is the key observable in both theoretical and experimental studies. The focus is on in-medium hadrons. Some recent theoretical developments are also reviewed.
The electrical transport properties of grain boundaries in epitaxial thin films of the perovskite manganites have been studied as a function of temperature and applied magnetic field. Below the Curie temperature T C an additional grain boundary resistance, highly nonlinear current-voltage curves, and a large magnetoresistive effect in the whole temperature regime below T C are found. The results can be explained consistently by the presence of a disordered, a few nm wide paramagnetic grain boundary layer that is depleted below T C due to an increase of the workfunction of the ferromagnetic grain material adjacent to this layer. The related band bending and space charge effects are important for the physics of grain boundaries in the manganites.
In the last article in this series, we briefly examined the Principle of Least Effort and the five forms of strain. Strain, you may recall, in physics, describes a change in the volume of a material when a force is applied. Our treatments are a blend of rotation and translation movements of our hands with a changing mix of strains being applied onto the client's tissues. Harnessing and interweaving the various forms of strain with dexterity may aid us in improving our treatment efficacy. In this tissue, we will consider the importance of anchorage and stability in treatment, We will consider a set of 'House Rules' for improving treatment. In addition, we will explore Bernstein's concept of degrees of freedom.
We present a method for finding lines of constant physics in the confinement phase of the SU(2) Higgs model on the lattice. The model is considered at finite values of the cut-off where it behaves like an effective field theory with three independent couplings. In particular, a renormalised quantity sensitive to a variation of the bare Higgs quartic self-coupling is constructed from generalised Binder cumulants. Numerical results for the non-perturbative matching of the bare parameters of the model between beta=2.2 and beta=2.4 are presented.
This paper considers: three-dimensional crystallizing pi-bonding of nucleons by electrons; the structure of the periodic table; the three-dimensional crystallizing pi-bondings of atoms and crystal structure; the characteristic orbitals of bcc, fcc and hcp and plastic deformation; plastic deformation by twins; plastic deformation by dislocations; hardening mechanisms; the fatigue limit; slip bands; reorientations of atoms and rotation of grains by three-dimensional crystallizing pi-bondings; three-dimensional crystallizing pi-bondings and the fatigue limit; three-dimensional crystallizing pi-bondings of atom and wear; and three-dimensional crystallizing pi-bonding of atoms and creep.
The measurements of hadron and lepton-pair production cross sections and leptonic forward-backward asymmetries performed with the L3 detector at centre-of-mass energies between 130 GeV and 189 GeV are used to search for new physics phenomena such as: contact interactions, exchange of virtual leptoquarks, scalar quarks and scalar neutrinos, effects of TeV strings in models of quantum gravity with large extra dimensions and non-zero sizes of the fermions. No evidence for these phenomena is found and new limits on their parameters are set.
Current models of oil spills include no vertical physics. They neglect the effect of vertical water motions on the transport and concentration of floating oil. Some simple ways to introduce vertical physics are suggested here. The major suggestion is to routinely measure the density stratification of the upper ocean during oil spills in order to develop a database on the effect of stratification.
The development of new low-energy detectors and strong artificial neutrino sources opens new opportunities to study new physics, such as additional gauge bosons in extended models and neutrino magnetic moments. In this talk we report the sensitivity that future experiments such as BOREXINO, HELLAZ and LAMA could have in searching for an additional gauge boson in different E 6 models as well as in the left-right symmetric model. We also discuss the sensitivity of a detector with good angular and recoil electron energy resolution in searching for a neutrino magnetic moment by using different artificial neutrino sources.
DeltaDelta mechanisms play an identifiable role in pi and gamma induced reactions above ~500 MeV, although the importance of their role is tempered somewhat from the first optimistic expectations. This chapter provides an understanding of this mechanism and nuclear dynamics, as it touches on a large number of topics, which have sustained interest in the nuclear community. These issues include the role that repulsive short range correlations play in setting the strength of the DeltaN -> DeltaDelta process, the interference of N* and ppi contributions, and the DeltaN tensor force. In the simplest case of a free deuteron target, DeltaDelta excitation will require an incident energy of about 600 MeV to be placed completely on the shell. On heavier nuclear targets, the process is helped by the high Fermi momentum tail, and so could be proportionately more important at lower energies than it would be on deuterium. The task, clearly, is to find a unique signature, which would indicate the presence of this exotic, and otherwise unexpectedly important process.
I suggest in this short article that a new theory beyond the standard model is necessary for the multiquark system.
I discuss, what really new could give Photon Colliders (gamma and egamma) after LHC and e + e - Linear Collider operations.
Current topics of photon-induced reactions are discussed, summarizing the results of Photon '99. Special emphasis is put on the determination of the non-perturbative properties of the long-distance photon component and the studies of the perturbative-QCD dynamics in short-range interactions. Signals at HERA and LEP for BFKL dynamics and a partonic structure of virtual photons are critically examined.
The neutrino beams originating from a muon storage ring can be used to study interactions of neutrinos with matter with unpreceding accuracy. Future high-statistics and high-precision measurements of neutrino interactions can improve our current knowledge of electroweak and strong interactions. For example, new experiments could determine the CKM matrix element V cd to a precision comparable to that of V us and the electroweak mixing angle to a precision equivalent to that of the W mass. Neutrino scattering from polarised targets would be within reach.
In this talk I present some of the recent theoretical results that have been obtained on glassy systems like spin glasses or structural glasses. The physical principles at the basis of the theory are explained in a simple language (without using replicas) and the results are compared with large scale numerical simulations. Finally I introduce the generalized fluctuation dissipation relation that can be directly tested in experiments with the present day technology.
Astrophysical arguments constrain the properties of various elementary particles in ways which are often complementary to cosmological arguments and to laboratory experiments. This pertains, in particular, to neutrinos, axions, other Nambu-Goldstone bosons, and gravitons, which are light so that their production in the hot and dense interior of stars is not impeded by threshold effects. This review provides an update to the most important stellar-evolution limits and discusses them in the context of other information from cosmology and laboratory experiments.
We propose to investigate flavour changing neutral currents in the c->ugamma transition through the measurement of the difference between Gamma(D 0->rho 0 gamma) and Gamma(D 0->omegagamma). This is based on the observation that D0->(d d  )gamma is due to long distance physics while D0->(u u  )gamma arises from the c->ugamma transition. The effect of rho-omega mixing is included. A difference in the decay widths of more than about 30 % would be indicative of new physics.
The emerging subfield of econophysics explores the degree to which certain concepts and methods from statistical physics can be appropriately modified and adapted to provide new insights into questions that have been the focus of interest in the economics community. Here we give a brief overview of two examples of research topics that are receiving recent attention. A first topic is the characterization of the dynamics of stock price fluctuations. For example, we investigate the relation between trading activity - measured by the number of transactions N Deltat - and the price change G Deltat for a given stock, over a time interval [t,t+Deltat]. We relate the time-dependent standard deviation of price fluctuations - volatility - to two microscopic quantities: the number of transactions N Deltat in Deltat and the variance W Deltat 2 of the price changes for all transactions in Deltat. Our work indicates that while the pronounced tails in the distribution of price fluctuations arise from W Deltat , the long-range correlations found in /G Deltat / are largely due to N Deltat . We also investigate the relation between price fluctuations and the number of shares Q Deltat traded in Deltat. We find that the distribution of Q Deltat is consistent with a stable Levy distribution, suggesting a Levy scaling relationship between Q Deltat and N Deltat , which would provide one explanation for volume-volatility co-movement. A second topic concerns cross-correlations between the price fluctuations of different stocks. We adapt a conceptual framework, random matrix theory (RMT), first used in physics to interpret statistical properties of nuclear energy spectra. RMT makes predictions for the statistical properties of matrices that are universal, that is, do not depend on the interactions between the elements comprising the system. In physics systems, deviations from the predictions of RMT provide clues regarding the mechanisms controlling the dynamics of a given system, so this framework can be of potential value if applied to economic systems. We discuss a systematic comparison between the statistics of the cross-correlation matrix C - whose elements C ij are the correlation-coefficients between the returns of stock i and j - and that of a random matrix having the same symmetry properties. Our work suggests that RMT can be used to distinguish random and non-random parts of C ; the non-random part of C , which deviates from RMT results provides information regarding genuine cross-correlations between stocks.
Applications of relativistic light front dynamics to computing the nucleonic and mesonic components of nuclear wave functions are reviewed. In this approach the fields are quantized at equal values of tau = x 0 + x 3. Our method is to use a Lagrangian, and its associated energy-momentum tensor T +mu to define the total momentum operators mu with P + as the plus-momentum and P - the tau-development operator. The motivation for unusual treatment of nuclear physics is the desire to use wave functions, expressed in terms of plus-momentum variables, which are used to analyze high energy experiments such as deep inelastic scattering, Drell-Yan production, (e,e') and (p,p') reactions. This motivation is discussed, and a simple overview of light front dynamics is presented. Some examples of ordinary quantum mechanics are solved to show that the formalism is tractable. The necessary quantization is reviewed and applied to a series of problems: infinite nuclear matter within the mean field approximation; a simple static source theory; finite nuclei using the mean field approximation; low-energy pion-nucleon scattering using a chiral Lagrangian; nucleon-nucleon scattering, within the one boson exchange approximation; and, infinite nuclear matter including the effects of two-nucleon correlations. Standard good results for nuclear saturation properties are obtained, with a possible improvement in the lowered value, 180 MeV, of the computed nuclear compressibility. A complicating feature of our light front dynamics is that manifest rotational invariance is not used as an aid in doing calculations. But for each of the examples reviewed here, manifest rotational invariance emerges in the results of the calculations. Thus nuclear physics can be done in a manner in which modern nuclear dynamics is respected, boost invariance in the z-direction is preserved, and in which the rotational invariance so necessary to understanding the basic features of nuclei is maintained. A salient feature is that omega, sigma and pi mesons are important constituents of nuclei. It seems possible to find Lagrangians that yield reasonable descriptions of nuclear deep inelastic scattering and Drell-Yan reactions. Furthermore, the presence of the sigma and omega mesons could provide a nuclear enhancement of the ratio of the cross sections for longitudinally and transversely polarized virtual photons in accord with recent measurements by the HERMES collaboration.
New physics effects through the direct CP violation and the decay rate change are investigated in the semileptonic D l4 decays, D +-->Kpil +- nu, by including a scalar-exchange interaction with a complex coupling. In the decay process, we included various excited states as intermediate states decaying to the final hadrons, K+pi, and found that among the intermediate states only the lowest state (K* ) is dominant and the other higher excited states are negligible, contrary to the B l4 decays. We also obtained constraints on the new complex coupling within the multi-Higgs doublet model and the scalar leptoquark models.
Although safety guidelines--to which mobile telephones and their base-stations conform--do protect against excessive microwave heating, there is evidence that the low intensity, pulsed radiation currently used can exert subtle non-thermal influences. If these influences entail adverse health consequences, current guidelines would be inadequate. This review will focus on this possibility. The radiation used is indeed of very low intensity, but an oscillatory similitude between this pulsed microwave radiation and certain electrochemical activities of the living human being should prompt concern. However, being so inherently dependent on aliveness, non-thermal effects cannot be expected to be as robust as thermal ones, as is indeed found; nor can everyone be expected to be affected in the same way by exposure to the same radiation. Notwithstanding uncertainty about whether the non-thermal influences reported do adversely affect health, there are consistencies between some of these effects and the neurological problems reported by some mobile-telephone users and people exposed longterm to base-station radiation. These should be pointers for future research.
Many space experiments in fundamental physics require accelerometers of high sensitivity. We present here the "Italian Spring Accelerometer" (ISA), operating at low frequencies (10-4 / 1 Hz), whose sensitivity is expected to be better than 10-12g Hz . An ISA prototype has been completed and used for ground tests. We describe ISA and report the results obtained from the exprimental measurements. We have conceived a differential accelerometer based on the same physical principles as ISA which, if operated at low temperatures, could reach a sensitivity better than 10-14g Hz and be of interest for testing the Weak Equivalence Principle in short-time free fall conditions.
Biological diversity would apparently seem the most intuitive and easily studied of ecological concepts. The first and obvious way to study it simply consists in counting the number of species present at a given location. However, it has rapidly become clear that diversity measurements are a far interesting and richer task than simple estimation of the number of species present. After the Second World War, several diversity indices have been proposed in order to quantify several aspects of biological diversity and their ecological implications. Since many theoretical foundations of biological diversity evolved at the cross-roads of theoretical ecology and statistical physics, in this paper I summarize the influences of statistical physics which mostly contributed to the understanding of biological diversity. Particularly, this review focuses on the observation that, despite the use of the same formalism, the ecological concept of diversity and the concept of geometrical complexity of strange attractors in statistical physics are based on very different theoretical assumptions. That is, ecologists do not simply rely on physical notation, but they generally reelaborates the theoretical foundation of statistical physics in an (ecological) meaningful way.
Performing plasma fusion experiments in a tokamak relies on close cooperation between discharge control (DCS) and machine control (MCS) systems, where the DCS's task is generating and handling the plasma, and the MCS is responsible for providing and configuring the necessary actuators. With a reduced number of experiment cycles per day, in consequence of long pulses or ambitious discharge scenarios, optimal utilization of resources as well as avoiding mismatches between the MCS' and DCS' configurations becomes increasingly important. Setting up the MCS for discharges currently relies on informal communication and requires careful attention of operators and session leaders. To enforce correspondence between MCS and DCS parametrizations, an automatic mediator agent formalizes the pre-shot configuration procedure. Functionality of the mediator and protocols for embedding into the existing system are discussed.
The main highlights from the papers presented at this workshop are briefly reviewed and discussed in a general context.
The Laboratory of Nuclear Science (LNS) at Tohoku University has contributed to nuclear science research with electron beams in the last three decades. It has recently completed construction of the stretcher-booster ring (STB ring). The STB ring is now producing a continuous electron beam with energies up to 250 MeV for external target stations, and is ready to deliver a tagged photon beam with energies up to 1.1 GeV. This chapter describes the present experimental programs for nuclear physics with the STB ring at LNS-Tohoku. The ring has two functions; the pulse-beam stretcher ring and the boost and storage ring. In the boost and storage mode operation, electrons are accelerated up to 1.2 GeV to be stored in the ring. They can be used for internal target experiments including high-energy tagged photon production.
